libxenserver
============

Version 6.1.0-1.

libxenserver is a complete SDK for Citrix XenServer, exposing the XenServer
API to C programmers.

libxenserver includes a C function call for each XenServer API call, so API
documentation and examples written for for other languages can be easily
mapped to C.  libxenserver comes with the usual complexities inherent with
programming in C, and it is recommended that you study the test programs
carefully to understand the approach to error reporting and memory management
taken by this library.

For XenServer documentation, see http://docs.xensource.com.  Both the SDK
Guide and API Documentation are ideal for developers wishing to use
libxenserver.

For community content, blogs, and downloads, visit the XenServer Developer
Network at http://community.citrix.com/cdn/xs.

libxenserver is free sofware.  You can redistribute and modify it under the
terms of the BSD license.  See COPYING for details.

This library may be accompanied by pedagogical examples.  These do not form
part of this library, and are licensed for redistribution and modification
under less restrictive terms.  Such examples are licensed clearly at the top
of each file.

Dependencies
------------

This library is dependent upon libxml2, the XML toolkit from the GNOME
project, by Daniel Veillard, et al.  This can be obtained from
http://xmlsoft.org/.

The test programs are dependent also upon libcurl3, by Daniel Stenberg, et al.
This can be downloaded from http://curl.haxx.se/.  You may choose to use
libcurl3 in your application, just as we have for the test programs, though
it's not required to do so, and you may use a different network layer if you
prefer.

On Debian, these are packaged as libxml2-dev and libcurl3-dev.

Downloads
---------

libxenserver is available in two separate archives, one for the compiled
binaries, and one for the source code.  The binaries are compiled for the
XenServer SDK virtual machine, and we recommend compiling from source if you
wish to use the library in a different environment.

Both archives are available from the XenServer Developer Network at
http://community.citrix.com/cdn/xs.

Compiling from Source
---------------------

To build, simply type "make" in the libxenserver directory.

To run the test, do

./test/test_vm_ops <url> <sr-name> <username> <password>

The <url> should be of the form: https://hostname.domain/

You can obtain a suitable <sr-name> by typing in "xe sr-list" on the host, e.g.:
"Auto-created spanning LVM SR on /dev/sda3"
